Welcome back for the
Computer Forensics Path,
course 5, Module 2.
In this module we're going
to discuss big data.
Some of the challenges that
we're going to face when we
are collecting big
data. Big data.
We definitely need to
talk about the three V's.
You're going to hear
this term a lot
when you hear big data.
We're talking about volume,
it's amount of data, velocity,
the speed this data
is traveling at,
and variety, the data comes
in many shapes and sizes.
Most of the time it's going
to be unstructured or
structured in many different
ways, or multi structured.
This data is going
to be too large for
our standard tools
and techniques that
we normally would
use in forensics.
Why do we care about big data?
Why is this going to be important
to us in our investigations?
Well, it is going to be
part of a lot of
our investigations.
Big data will play a role.
It is especially important when
we're going to see
incident forensics
because big data may contain
the sources of our breach.
So we need to find it.
It can be buried under
a lot of other things that
are going to be irrelevant.
Sorting through that is
going to be the key.
We're going to see patterns of
data hidden under piles of
irrelevant information.
It is of great value to
businesses and cybersecurity.
We're talking about businesses,
marketing and sales.
They rely on this big data,
all these data that's being
collected about us all the time
moving across the
Internet at rapid speed.
This data is very important
to businesses and cybersecurity.
It's very important
to cybersecurity
because like we said,
it can reveal the sources
of breaches and most of
the data that is dealt with in
the business world is
an unstructured data.
We need to remember that,
it's going to be unstructured.
It could be vendor proprietary,
proprietary to just that
particular entity that
you're looking at,
just a particular company.
These things are going
to play a big role in
how we look at the data.
The methodology is pretty
much the same that we
use throughout any other type
of forensic investigation.
We need to identify.
The first thing is we need to
identify our a
source of evidence,
where is this big data?
Then we need to collect it.
Once we've identified it,
we need to collect it,
Then we need to acquire it.
That's going to be taking
some type of forensic copy of it.
We need to acquire these data.
We're talking about big data.
You're going to be
talking about doing
a lot of live acquisitions.
We'll get more into that
throughout this path.
Preservation, we need to
preserve it like any
other evidence we've
collected we need to
preserve it as best we can.
Then we need to analyze it.
Again, this is something that
we're going to have
challenges with
because it's going
to be too big for
our traditional tools and
so justly how we examined things.
It's going to be unstructured
or it may be vendor proprietary,
and it can be multi-structured.
Then we're going
to write a report.
We're going to report on this.
Then of course,
after that we should
have peer review and
quality control.
How do we identify?
Where are we going
to find the data?
Well, you'll find
them on servers.
Servers are multiple
hard drives and they
can be configured in
what's called a RAID,
which is going to mean you have
multiple disks that may
have duplicate data.
It may be stripe so you
could have parts of
data spread out over
several disks in this RAID.
RAIDS do provide their
own set of challenges.
We could have a SAN,
a Storage Area Network,
and this is going
to be a network of
service containing
large-scale data.
We could have a network of
servers and on something
like this you're
going to need to do
some type of live collection.
We can have
large-scale databases.
Databases now come in many shapes
and sizes and they
are growing in size.
We may have distributed
file systems.
A lot of people use
distributed file systems and
distributed processing
because of the power
and the speed of it
and that means your data
could be spread out
across multiple servers,
multiple systems.
You're going to have
associated application,
specialized applications that
we're going to need to deal
with that are not going to
be our traditional file systems.
Some of the challenges
we're going to
have, lack of expertise.
There's not a lot of
people that are experts
in doing big data
collection analysis.
It takes specialized
training beyond
that course of this path,
but lack of experience,
lack of experts.
It is time-consuming.
It is extremely time-consuming
to do because you're dealing
with a very large amount of
data that you have
to sift through.
It's going to be difficult to
understand because
it's not going to
be our traditional
NTFS file system,
EXE files, HFS or MELIO.
It's going to be something
that's unstructured
a lot of times.
We're going to be dealing
with large-scale storage devices,
which again are these
servers, these RAIDS.
A lot of these data
is going to need
to be collected live.
Then we have to deal with
IoT which is the
Internet of Things,
which means we can have
many different devices
and even different types of
devices all intertwined
into the same system.
You also have to deal
with Cloud Computing.
A lot of your data is not
going to be on a local server.
It's going to be on
some server firm out there
in the Cloud and you're
going to have to
rely on Amazon or whoever holds
that club to give you the data
you're looking forward
to sift through.
Social media,
there's a ton of data out
there on social media.
Again, you're going to have
to rely on somebody else
to give you that data
because Facebook isn't
going to let you live
image their servers.
You may be dealing with
thousands of storage drives.
When you're dealing
with Cloud computing
and social media,
your servers may be located in
different jurisdictions
and that in
itself can give you
even more challenges.
There are some challenges with
big data hence the systems
cannot be shut down.
We've talked about that a
lot of times you can't shut
the system's down because you
could lose data if you do,
the servers may not come back up
and you can't shut down
legitimate business.
It's going to require
a logical acquisition
of the targeted data.
So you're going to
need to talk to
somebody who knows the network.
You're going to have to talk
to a network admin to figure
out where the data
you want is in.
It could be even on
a virtual machine,
located on a server.
But you're going to need to find
that information
out so that you can
target the data you need
with a logical acquisition.
We will cover more about
this throughout the path.
Some of the tools that are
specialized for big data.
We had Apache Hadoop,
which is an open source framework
and it stores and
processes large data-sets.
We also have traditional tools,
we have FTK the Forensic Toolkit.
We have cellebrite, X-ways,
KAPE which is a free tool,
EnCase, and Autopsy
which is a free tool.
But a lot of these
tools are going
to have a hard time with
extremely large data sources.
Hadoop is especially configured
to handle large data sources.
KAPE would do a
pretty good job on
a large data source
and alive acquisition.
But we're talking about
cellebrite, X-ways, FTK,
you're going to have
a hard time using
your traditional tools to
examine these large data-sets.
To use your traditional tools,
you're going to have to
narrow down your data-set to
be able to process it with
traditional forensic tools.
In our next section,
we are going to talk
about acquiring data,
how we would do an acquisition.
We're going to talk about
collecting digital evidence.